Java - is a programing language.

Selenium -  is a tool for automating web browsers.

Cucumber - is a tool for writing and running automated tests in plain language called gherkin.
It helps you describe how a web application should behave in human-readable sentences,
making it easier to understand and share with non-technical team members.

-No main method for execution - no control of execution
-Smoke Testing-To ensure the most critical functions of the software work after a new build or update.
-Regression- To ensure that new code changes haven’t introduced new bugs or broken existing functionality.

Framework - is a structure that guides how to write and execute tests in a consistent way.

Cucumber as a tool: explained in packages/classes
Cucumber/BDD as a framework: behavior driven development is a technique where your test cases are written in plain English language


HOW TO CREATE A NEW PROJECT IN CUCUMBER:
1-File-new-Project-Maven-groupId-artifactId-create
2-Delete main folder
3-Open resources in Java folder

group Id-the name of the organisation you work for (for now write syntax)
artifact Id-name of the project

1.click pom.xml file + add dependencies

src/main: here we write the code to develop the application.
src/test: here we write th code to test the application.
Here we delete main folder because we will work with test we only need the Test folder.

In Java - we keep all java stuff (classes and packages)
In resources - we keep all the non java stuff

In selenium we don't have reporting option, no execution control, no standart format
of writing the code. To achieve all these, we need to integrate our scripts
with additional tools and structure (framework).

In our cucumber project we need:
java- selenium-cucumber-apache poi dependencies.

CUCUMBER AS A TOOL EXAMPLE
User Story: 1234 - Valid admin login
Scenario:

GIVEN - pre condition
WHEN - actions
THEN -expected result
AND - supporting tag

Given user is navigated to HRMS application
When user enters admin username and password
And user clicks on login button
Then admin user is successfully logged in
(shkruhet ne veten e trete ai/ajo)

IN CUCUMBER EVERY TEST CASE WILL BE CONSIDERED AS A SCENARIO

We write scenario in a file called feature file.
extension.feature


STEPS
1.Delete main
2.Right click on 'test' create resources.
3.Create Login.features under resources.
4.Create the Scenario in Login.feature class and press Run.
5.All the steps will show in the console.
6.Copy the steps and create a 'steps' package in Java also create a class LoginSteps and paste the steps there.
7.go to login.feature, right click, press 'go to' + declaration. (like that you link the login feature with the login steps).

RULES FOR WRITING THE SCENARIO:
-once  the step definition is created don't add any space or any other character on it
-don't create duplicate steps, steps have to be unique

CUCUMBER ENCOURAGES CODE REUSABILITY (to reuse a code dmth mos me shkr sh her t njejten por me riperdor)



USER STORY NR 2 - Employee search
Scenario-search employee by id
since i already finished the first 4 steps use the same ones (code reusability) just add one more step in another class
called Employee.feature.
Separate cases for separate user stories.

Scenario: Valid admin login
    Given user is navigated to HRMS application
    When user enters admin username and password
    And user clicks on login button
    Then user is successfully logged in
    When user clicks on PIM option
    And user clicks on Employee List Option
    When  user enters employee id
    And user clicks on search button
    Then user should be able to see employee details

I copy paste kto steps tek EmployeeSearch.feature dhe Run. Ne console shikon steps
qe duhet te besh copy dhe paste tek EmployeeSteps.
Remember for feature file we need step definitions to execute a code.

RUNNER CLASS- we use this class to execute specific scenarios if we don't want to execute all of them. (create this package under java)
In Runners package we will create all the test runner classes.

UTILS-COMMON METHODS- this class contains methods which are commonly used across different pars of a program

*There is a need through which I can execute one scenario among multiple. Qe t'mos i run tgjith scenarions gjithmone duhet ti vesh tags qe t mund t exetute dhe vec e vec.
*We use "or" keyword to execute scenarios from either conditions
if one condition is true, it will execute the scenarios.
*We use "and" keyword to execute the scenarios when both conditions must be true.
*Tags in runner class and in scenarios have to be the same


*Cross browser testing --> when script execute against multiple browsers

*Centralized Configuration: All configuration details are managed in a single file.
 Easy Maintenance: Any change to the configuration can be done in the .properties file without touching the test code.
 Reusability: This setup allows you to reuse the same configuration across different test classes and scenarios.
 This is how the ConfigReader class fits into a Cucumber-based automation framework, helping to manage test configurations effectively.


*Tek Utils shto dhe config reader dhe constants te cilat kane methods you can call them to reuse the code so you don't have to write some specific code over & over again.
Pastaj tek stepdeffinitions e Zevendson kodin e gjate, you call the short methods.

Pasi i ke shkr methods ne CommonMethods shko tek LoginSteps.Java dhe zevendso methods per short code.
Pastaj tek EmployeeSeardch steps shkr kodin e shkurter qe i lexon nga klasat qe kane kode per tu riperdor.


*NEVER add a @tag before writing the Feature

FILE PATH:
C:\Users\klevi\IdeaProjects\1CUCUMBERsrc\test\resources\config\config.properties
C:\Users\klevi\IdeaProjects\1CUCUMBER\src\test\resources\config\config.properties



*HOOKS --> a separate class in framework to write a pre condition and post condition so you don't have to rewrite them all the time in every scenarion in different feture files.
When we execute the code, hooks class will execute pre condition first and then all the test cases will be executed
and then post condition will execute last.
*DON'T FORGET TO COMMENT STEPS FROM ALL FEATURE FILES FOR PRE AND POST CONDITION
per te execute te gjitha file features same time put @test tags tek te gjitha si common tag dhe shko tek steps="@test" that's how you execute all of them same time

*In the framework we cannot pass any hard coded data, cucumber allows us to perform data driven testing.

*//perdor @Background per common steps

*data driven testing --> when one scenario executed against multiple set of data, we call it data driven testing approach. (video 5)

*Scenario: Runs once with a single set of data.
*Scenario Outline: Runs multiple times with different sets of data using the Examples table.
*ORDER OF EXECUTION--> HOOKS - BACKGROUND - SCENARIO

Summary of Execution Order:
@Before hooks
Background steps (if any)
Scenario steps
@After hooks
